---
layout: post
title: Java and JVM Languages
category: [Technology, Programming]
tags: [Jython, JVM, Java, GOSU, Clojure, Groovy, Scala]
comments: true
description: Over the years, [JVM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Virtual_Machine "Java Virtual Machine") has become not only the host of Java but also of several other languages. Categorized together as [JVM-based languages](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_JVM_languages), these languages claim to better what and how Java does performs specific functions. Some of this that needs specific mention and those that interests me are listed in this post.
---

Over the years,
[JVM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Virtual_Machine "Java Virtual
Machine") has become not only the host of Java but also of several
other languages. Categorized together as [JVM-based
languages](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_JVM_languages), these
languages claim to better what and how Java does performs specific
functions. Some of these that need specific mention and those that
interests me are listed below-



[Jython](http://www.jython.org/ "Jython") - It is originally a port of
popular language Python to the JVM. However, I am very much interested
in Python but have quite a lot interaction with Jython while working
with WebLogic Scripting Tool.

[Groovy](http://groovy.codehaus.org/ "Groovy") - As part of my
project, I had certain work that I wanted to do without writing a full
code in Java and a colleague did it using Groovy. I could not think
that it would be so easy but it was done. After few years, I was
having discussion regarding JVM languages on
[JavaRanch](www.coderanch.com/forums) forums, when Groovy was
reintroduced to me as the language that most closely resembles Java.
Few will say that Groovy just offers syntactic sugar for Java. Sure,
it does and quite successfully. I have just started learning it and
you may see some posts on my blog related to my learnings related to
Groovy.

[Scala](http://scala-lang.org "Scala") - This is a language that is
hot in the market. It is a blend of Object Oriented and [Functional
Paradigms](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_programming ). Its
fundamental syntax is replacement for Java and the advanced features
offer freedom to write a functional code. I plan to learn Scala after
I Groovy.

[JRuby](http://jruby.org "JRuby") - It is a Java implementation of
[Ruby programming language](http://www.ruby-lang.org/ "Ruby"). Its
homepage says The Ruby Programming Language on the JVM and claims to
be the best of JVM in terms of performance, threading, and libraries.
The language features have all been ported, and it is now possible to
run Ruby on Rails on the JVM. I have no experience on Ruby. So, will
not be able to comment on its claims but truly it happens to be the
language on my To Learn list.

[Clojure](http://clojure.org/ "Clojure") - This language brought my
interest to JVM Languages. It is a dialect of Lisp that runs on JVM.
It was developed by Rich Hickey.  It is a functional general-purpose
language with focus on programming with immutable values and like
other Lisps Clojure treats [code as
data](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homoiconicity "Code as Data").

[GOSU](http://gosu-lang.org/ "GOSU") - I learned about this language
when I was browsing through internet and came across this
[page](http://www.drdobbs.com/open-source/language-of-the-month-gosu/231001429).
Developed by Guidewire, a company specializing in software packages
for the insurance industry, the language offers powerful features like
extensible type system, reified generics, modify existing types, etc.
I think I must add this to my To Learn list as well. You can see a
comparison (by Gosu team) of several popular JVM Languages over
[here](http://gosu-lang.org/compare.html).

[Ceylon](http://ceylon-lang.org) - is a programming language created
by Red Hat and the project has been referred to by industry analysts
as a "Java killer", though Red Hat] themselves reject this term. As
per the official documentation, Ceylon's syntax is ultimately derived
from C...You can run Ceylon anywhere a Java
7[^fn1] Virtual Machine
is available. The Ceylon compiler uses the bytecode generator in Open
JDK to produce [Java
bytecode](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_bytecode).

[^fn1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_version_history
